now let's uh focus on a warning that's
come from the World Bank of the
increased risks of price Rises across
the board if the conflict in the Middle
East escalates focusing on the
possibility for huge rises in the price
of oil to over $150 a barrel but also
looking at the price of gold long seen
as a safe haven investment in times of
upheaval the price of the precious metal
has risen by around 8% since the start
of the Israel Gaza war and according to
to a new report from the world gold
council is also being brought up by
central banks like never before John
Reed is Market strategist at the world
gold Council and he explained the
findings central banks have more than
doubled the amount of gold that they've
purchased really starting from the
middle of last year and and that's made
a major difference I think to the gold
market you know even before this
conflict lifted the gold price we've
seen um the US dollar really we've seen
interest rates really strong normally
that would put gold Under Pressure but
because of this enormous Central Bank
purchases we're within a few percentage
points of the all-time high in gold
which we saw both during coid and then
following the Russian invasion of
Ukraine and I presume you don't see this
trend changing or going in the opposite
direction anytime soon no I don't think
so we spent a lot of time talking to
central banks about what they're doing
in gold and why they're doing it helping
them understand the gold market and
there's number of factors that are
driving their purchases you know I I I
think there's a recognition from central
banks that inflation is going to be more
of a problem in the in the next decade
than it was in the in the past 10 years
I think geopolitics is playing a role
not just the Russian invasion of Ukraine
but I think concerns that we're entering
into a a more lively
geopolitical um Arena I I think as well
the the actions taken uh against the
Central Bank of Russia uh sanctioning
its reserves following the invasion of
Ukraine have really made Reserve
managers at central banks uh sit up and
take notice and I think that they they
see the sanctions resistant uh
quantities of gold as very attractive
and and finally I think there's there's
the belief that we're moving towards a
more multi-polar world where it's not
just the US dollar that is the reserve
currency of the world but in time
there'll be other Reserve currencies too
this rate of purchasing can continue we
think for years maybe even decades and
it just goes to show doesn't it that
that gold I mean once upon a time it was
very much out of fashion and our former
Chancellor Gordon Brown famously sold
off huge amounts of UK reserves which
now looks like a a huge mistake of
course it it just goes to show that gold
will always remain as the safe haven in
times of trouble won't you think I I
think so and I wouldn't be too quick to
blame Gordon Brown for his sales uh lots
of other central banks were selling gold
at the time as well but you're right um
gold is a perennial asset it's uh and
certainly over the last 10 years
following the global financial crisis
following the coid pandemic the Russian
invasion of Ukraine it's really
demonstrated its role uh in a portfolio
for central banks but also for investors
too John Reed there from the world gold
Council